Okay, so at this point we now know
how to create commits for a single file, at least,
and we learned how to move between commits.
Now, let's say that we want to undo this latest commit.
We're not happy with it anymore,
we don't want this paragraph.
Instead, I want to add some styling to this website
and I want to add an image to make it look more pleasant.
Because at the moment, if you open this
in your finder or your Windows Explorer
and you double-click that index.html file there,
you will see that this website doesn't look too fancy.
So I want to add some styling and a nice image to it
and I want to get rid of this paragraph with this link
because, let's say, we don't need that anymore.
How can we revert such a commit then?
Well, one option would be to manually make the changes
we want to make, like, for example, removing that paragraph,
and then adding a new commit.
That is something you can do and that is absolutely fine
but it's actually more work than you need to do
because Git also offers various commands
that help with undoing commits.
For example, the very important git revert command.
This also needs the ID of a commit you want to revert,
and what this command does then is it takes a look
at the commit with that ID that you are specifying here
and it then reverts the changes that were made
by that commit.
So not all the changes since that commit
but the changes that are defined in that commit
with that ID.
Now what's important is that git revert won't delete
that commit which you want to revert,
but instead it adds a new commit in addition
that includes all the changes that have to be made
to undo the changes of that other commit.
To see this in action, I'm back here in my project
and I know that I want to undo this commit,
because that's the commit where I added this paragraph.
In order to do that, I'll copy the ID of this commit
and then I can run git revert
and specify that commit ID.
If you do that and you hit Enter, you see?
Now the paragraph with the link is gone
and I'm prompted to enter a message here.
Now I have to enter a message here
because I'm basically creating a new commit here.
That's what I just explained,
it's reverted by adding a new commit.
So, therefore, here we have to enter some content
and how you enter your content here,
how you use this terminal editor,
depends on your operating system
and what your default editor here is.
So that's something you'll have to look up
for your specific editor in your Command Prompt.
Here, I'll just say reverting added link,
and thereafter I'll save and close this.
Now, if I run git log, we see that the old commit
where I added the link is still there,
but we also got this new commit which I just made,
which gets rid of the paragraph again.
So that's something Git did automatically for us
and we didn't have to edit the code manually.
Of course, when it comes to removing a simple paragraph,
manually editing the code is something
that wouldn't have been too difficult,
but in bigger projects you will often have changes
that span multiple files and are more complex,
and then it's, of course, very convenient
if it's just one command that gets rid of all these changes
instead of having to do that manually.
So that's how you can undo commits with help of git revert.